---
x-trestle-global:
  profile:
    title: OCP4 CIS Profile
---

# CIS-2.6 - \[etcd\] Ensure that the --peer-auto-tls argument is not set to true

## Control Statement

Do not use automatically generated self-signed certificates for TLS connections between peers.

## Control rationale_statement

etcd is a highly-available key value store used by Kubernetes deployments for persistent storage of all of its REST API objects. These objects are sensitive in nature and should be accessible only by authenticated etcd peers in the etcd cluster. Hence, do not use self-signed certificates for authentication.

## Control impact_statement

All peers attempting to communicate with the etcd server require a valid client certificate for authentication.

## Control remediation_procedure

This setting is managed by the cluster etcd operator. No remediation required.

## Control audit_procedure

OpenShift does not use the `--peer-auto-tls` argument. OpenShift 4 includes multiple CAs providing independent chains of trust, which ensure that a platform CA will never accidentally sign a certificate that can be used for the wrong purpose, increasing the security posture of the cluster.

These internal self-signing CAs enable automation because the key is known to the cluster. The certificates generated by each CA are used to identify a particular OpenShift platform component to another OpenShift platform component. The OpenShift CAs are managed by the cluster and are only used within the cluster. This means that

- Each cluster CA can only issue certificates for its own purpose within its own cluster. 
- CAs for one OpenShift cluster cannot influence CAs for a different OpenShift cluster, thus avoiding cross-cluster interference.

Cluster CAs cannot be influenced by an external CA that the cluster does not control.

Run the following command:

```

# Returns 0 if found, 1 if not found
for i in $(oc get pods -oname -n openshift-etcd)
do
 oc exec -n openshift-etcd -c etcd $i -- \
 ps -o command= -C etcd | grep -- --peer-auto-tls=true 2>&1>/dev/null ; \
 echo $?
done
```

Verify that 1 is returned for each etcd member.

## Control CIS_Controls

TITLE:Use Unique Passwords CONTROL:v8 5.2 DESCRIPTION:Use unique passwords for all enterprise assets. Best practice implementation includes, at a minimum, an 8-character password for accounts using MFA and a 14-character password for accounts not using MFA. ;TITLE:Use Unique Passwords CONTROL:v7 4.4 DESCRIPTION:Where multi-factor authentication is not supported (such as local administrator, root, or service accounts), accounts will use passwords that are unique to that system.;

# Editable Content

<!-- Make additions and edits below -->
<!-- The above represents the contents of the control as received by the profile, prior to additions. -->
<!-- If the profile makes additions to the control, they will appear below. -->
<!-- The above markdown may not be edited but you may edit the content below, and/or introduce new additions to be made by the profile. -->
<!-- If there is a yaml header at the top, parameter values may be edited. Use --set-parameters to incorporate the changes during assembly. -->
<!-- The content here will then replace what is in the profile for this control, after running profile-assemble. -->
<!-- The current profile has no added parts for this control, but you may add new ones here. -->
<!-- Each addition must have a heading either of the form ## Control my_addition_name -->
<!-- or ## Part a. (where the a. refers to one of the control statement labels.) -->
<!-- "## Control" parts are new parts added after the statement part. -->
<!-- "## Part" parts are new parts added into the top-level statement part with that label. -->
<!-- Subparts may be added with nested hash levels of the form ### My Subpart Name -->
<!-- underneath the parent ## Control or ## Part being added -->
<!-- See https://ibm.github.io/compliance-trestle/tutorials/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring/ssp_profile_catalog_authoring for guidance. -->
